Infrastructure as Objects
=========================

ACI uses a combination of Cisco Nexus 9000 Series Switch hardware and
Application Policy Infrastructure Controllers for policy-based fabric
configuration and management. These infrastructure components can be
integrated with Cisco and third-party service products to automatically
provision end-to-end network solutions.

As shown in the following diagram, the logical policy model is built through
manipulation of the dMIT, either through direct GUI, programmatic API, or
through traditional CLI methods. Once the policy is built, the intention of
the policy gets resolved into an abstract model, then is conferred to the
infrastructure elements. The infrastructure elements contain specific Cisco
ASIC hardware that make them equipped, purpose-built agents of change that can
understand the abstraction that the policy controller presents to it, and
automate the relevant concrete configuration based on the abstract model. This
configuration gets applied when an endpoint connects to the fabric and first
transmits traffic.

.. image:: /images/intergrated system 001.jpg
   :width: 750 px
   :align: center

|

The purpose-built hardware providing the intelligent resolution of policy
configuration is built on a spine-leaf architecture providing consistent
network forwarding and deterministic latency. The hardware is also able to
normalize the encapsulation coming in from multiple different endpoints
regardless of the type connectivity.

If an endpoint connects to a fabric with an overlay encapsulation (such as
VXLAN), uses physical port connectivity or VLAN 802.1Q tagging, the fabric can
take accept that traffic, de-encapsulate, then re-encapsulate it to VXLAN for
fabric forwarding, then de-encapsulate and re-encapsulate to whatever the
destination expects to see. This gateway function of encapsulation
normalization happens at optimized hardware speeds in the fabric and creates
no additional latency or software gateway penalty to perform the operation
outside of the fabric.

In this manner, if a VM is running on VMWare ESX utilizing VXLAN, and a VM
running on Hyper-V using VLAN 802.1Q encapsulation, and a physical server
running a bare metal database workload on top of Linux, it is possible to
configure policy to allow each of these to communicate directly to each other
without having to bounce to any separate gateway function.

This automated provisioning of end-to-end application policy provides
consistent implementation of relevant connectivity, quality measures, and
security requirements. This model is extensible, and has the potential
capability to be extended into compute and storage for complete application
policy-based provisioning.

The automation of the configuration takes the Logical model, and translates it
into other models, such as the Resolved model and the Concrete model (Covered
later in this chapter). The automation process resolves configuration
information into the object and class-based configuration elements that then
get applied based on the object and class. As an example, if the system is
applying a configuration to a port or a group of ports, the system would
likely utilize a class-based identifier to apply configuration broadly without
manual iteration. As an example, a class is used to identify objects like
cards, ports, paths, etc; port Ethernet 1/1 is a member of class port and a
type of port configuration, such as an access or trunk port is a subclass of a
port. A leaf node or a spine node is a subclass of a fabric node, and so forth.

The types of objects and relationships of the different networking elements
within the policy model can be seen in the diagram below. Each of these
elements can be managed via the object model being manipulated through the
APIC, and each element could be directly manipulated via REST API.

.. image:: /images/network_constructs.jpg
   :width: 750 px
   :align: center

|
