=======================
L4-L7 Service Insertion
=======================

Overview
--------

This chapter covers the common troubles encountered during L4-L7 service
insertion with the ACI fabric. An overview of what should happen and the
verification steps used to confirm a working L4-L7 service insertion are
covered first. The displays taken on a working fabric can then be used as an
aid in troubleshooting issues when service graph and device cluster deployment
failed.

The Cisco ACI and the APIC controller are designed with the ability to provide
automated service insertion while acting as a central point of policy control
within the ACI fabric. ACI policies manage both the network fabric and
services appliances such as firewalls, load balancers, etc. The policy
controller has the ability to configure the network automatically to allow
traffic to flow through the service devices. In addition, the policy
controller can also automatically configure the service devices according to
the application service requirements. This approach allows organizations to
automate infrastructure configuration coordinated with service insertion and
eliminate the challenge of managing all the complex traffic-steering
techniques that are used by traditional service insertion configuration
methods.

When a service graph is defined though the APIC GUI, the concept of
"functions" are used to specify how traffic should flow between the consumer
EPG and the provider EPG. These functions can be exposed as firewall, load
balancer, SSL offload, etc. and APIC will translate these function definitions
into selectable elements of a service graph through a technique called
rendering. Rendering involves the allocation of the fabric resources, such as
bridge domain, service device IP addresses, etc. to ensure the consumer and
provider EPGs will have all necessary resources and configuration to be
functional.

Device Package
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The APIC needs to communicate with the service devices to define and configure
the user-specific functions according to the “communcations method” the
service device understands. This method of translation happens between the
APIC and service devices by utilizing a plug-in or device package installed by
the administrator. The device package also includes a description of the
functions supported by the device package and the mode that the service device
is utilizing. In ACI terminology, a service appliance can operate in two modes:

    #. Go-To Mode - aka Routed mode. Examples include L3 routed firewall or
       load balancer, or one-arm load balancer.
    #. Go-Through Mode - Transparent mode. An example would be a transparent
       L2, or bridged) firewall.
       
The illustration below shows some examples of device package functions.

.. image:: /images/devpkg.png
   :width: 750 px
   :align: center

|
 
Service Graph Definition
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

When the service graph definitions are being configured, the abstract graph
needs to stitch together the consumer and provider contract. The connectors
between the Function Node have two connector types:

    #. L2 - Layer 2 connector. Example includes ACI fabric that has L2
       adjacency between EPG and the transparent firewall's inside interface.

    #. L3 - Layer 3 connector with Unicast routing. Example: ACI fabric will
       act as the default gateway the outside interface of the ASA transparent
       firewall.

Node name - this will be used later on during before the service graph is
rendered.

.. todo::
   Finish the table in l4l7 service insertion

Adjacency

Function Type

BD Selection

L2

Go-To

Disable routing on BD if the routing is disabled for the connection.

L3

Go-To

Routing must also be enabled within the BD.

L2

Go-Through

Disable routing on BD if the routing is disabled for the connection. 

L3

 Go-Through

 Routing settings on “shadow” BD is set as per the routing on connection.

Once the abstract graph is instantiated, the function of the service devices
can be configured via GUI, REST or CLI. These functions include firewall or
load balancer configurations such as IP addresses of the interfaces,
access-list, load balancer monitoring policy, virtual IP, etc.

The illustration below shows the L4-L7 Function mode and empty Service
Parameters.

.. image:: /images/nodeconfig.png
   :width: 750 px
   :align: center

|

Concrete Device and Logical Device
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The service graph also contains the abstract node information. The APIC will
translate the definition and functions from the abstract graph into the
concrete devices that are connected onto the ACI fabric. This may raise the
question of why there is a logical device and a concrete device. The way this
works is the concrete devices are the standalone appliance nodes, but the
devices are typically deployed as a cluster, or pair, which is represented as
a logical clustered device.

The following parameters are mandatory to create the Concrete Device:

    #. Device identity such as IP address and login credential of the concrete
       device.

    #. Logical interface to actual interface mapping, including guest VM
       virtual network adapter name.

The following parameters are mandatory to create the Logical Device Cluster:

    #. Select the device type - physical or virtual.
    #. Device identity such as IP address and login credential of the logical
       device.
    #. Logical interface name and function.

The illustration below shows the Logical Device Cluster configuration screen.

.. image:: /images/devicecluster.png
   :width: 750 px
   :align: center

|
 
Device Cluster Selector Policies
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The last step before the service graph can be rendered is to associate the
service graph with the appropriate contract and logical device. For example,
the Create Logical Device Context screen is where the association of contract,
graph, node and cluster is built between the "PermitWeb" contract, "Web"
graph, "Web-FW" node, "Prod/Web-FW" device cluster.

The illustration below shows the Logical Device Context configuration.

.. image:: /images/createlogicalcontext.png
   :width: 750 px
   :align: center

|

Rendering the Service Graph
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

In order to render the service graph, association needs to happen between the
appropriate contract and subject to the correct L4-L7 Service Graph.

If the service graph is able to deploy, the service graph instance and virtual
device will be seen as deployed in "Deployed Service Graphs" and "Deployed
Device Clusters". The illustration shows the working and rendered service
graph.

The illustration below shows where to attach the service graph to the contract.

.. image:: /images/deployedsganddc.png
   :width: 750 px
   :align: center

|

Problem Description
-------------------

The service graph is not rendering and will not deploy after the service graph
is attached to a contract.

Symptom 1
^^^^^^^^^

When clicking the logical device cluster, the Device State is in "init" state.

Verification
^^^^^^^^^^^^

The "init" state indicates there is a communication issue - the APIC
controller cannot communicate with the service device. Faults under the
Logical Device context should be seen. A following fault code from an ASA
logical device context shows communication between APIC and service device:

.. code-block:: console

   F0324 Major script error : Connection error : HTTPSConnectionPool(host='10.122.254.39', port=443): Max retries exceeded with url: /admin/exec/show%20version%20%7C%20grep%20Cisco%20Adaptive%20Security%20Appliance%20Software%20Version (Caused by <class 'socket.error'>: [Errno 101] Network is unreachable)

This fault can be resolved by verifying the connectivity between the APIC and
the service device with the following:

    #. Ping the service device from the APIC CLI to verify reachability
    #. Verify login credentials to the service device with the username and
       password supplied in the device configuration
    #. Verify the device's virtual IP and port is open
    #. Verify username and password is correct in the APIC configuration
 
Symptom 2
^^^^^^^^^

After correcting connectivity issues between the APIC and the service device,
it can be seen that a F0765 CDev configuration is invalid due to
cdev-missing-virtual-info fault has occurred.

Verification
^^^^^^^^^^^^

After verification of the network connectivity between APIC and the service
appliance (in this case the service appliance is a VM), it is necessary to
ensure the service VM name matches the vCenter console, and the vCenter name
matches the Data Center name.

Symptom 3
^^^^^^^^^

Seeing a fault defined as F0772 LIf configuration is invalid due to
LIf-invalid-CIf in the Logical Device context.

Verification
^^^^^^^^^^^^

First, it is necessary to define what are the items indicated called the LIf
and the CIf. LIf is the logical interface and CIf is a concrete interface.
With this particular fault, the Logical interface is the element that is not
rendering properly. This is where the Function Node maps the logical interface
to the actual, or concrete, interface to form a relationship. F0772 means one
of the following:

    #. The Logical interface is not created
    #. The Logical interface is not mapped to the correct concrete interface.

Symptom 4
^^^^^^^^^

After fixing the previous fault, F0772, there may be an additional fault,
F0765 Cdev configuration is invalid due to cdev-missing-cif.

Verification
^^^^^^^^^^^^

This fault indicates that the CIf, concrete interface, is missing from the
concrete device. This can be checked under the concrete device configuration
under L4-L7 Services->Device Clusters->Logical Device->Device->Policy to
verify the necessary concrete interfaces have been configured.

Symptom 5
^^^^^^^^^

When deploying the service graph, it is possible to see a fault defined as
F0758 Service graph could not be rendered due to following:
id-allocation-failure.

Verification
^^^^^^^^^^^^

When deploying service device VMs in a hypervisor, these devices are like the
normal virtual machine creation in that they will be placed into their own EPG
that is mapped to the BD where the VM resides. When the service graph is
rendered by the APIC, it will allocate the VLANs from the VMM pool assigned
during logical device cluster creation. If the dynamic VLAN pool that is
associated with the VMM does not have enough VLANs allocated, it will fail and
raise fault F0758.

This error can be corrected by allocating additional VLANs into the dynamic
VLAN pool that is used by the VMM.

Symptom 6
^^^^^^^^^

All faults seem to be cleared but the service graph will still not render, and
no faults are raised. In addition, verification of the contract shows it has
been associated with the appropriate service graph. The filter is also defined
and associated to the correct contract.

Verification
^^^^^^^^^^^^

Go to consumer EPG or External Bridge Network and the provider EPG. It needs
to have configured the correct EPG or External Bridge Network as the consumer
and provider. If the EPG is configured as both consumer and provider, the
L4-L7 graph will not be rendered.

Symptom 7
^^^^^^^^^

The service graph is trying to render, but it fails and raises the fault F0758
Service graph could not be rendered due to following: missing-mandatory-param.

Verification
^^^^^^^^^^^^

This fault is associated with the Function Node configuration. It would be
caused by one or more missing mandatory parameters, or one or more missing
mandatory device configuration parameters:

    * Check the Function Node configuration and verify if any Mandatory
      parameter with “true” is missing.
    * Check under the actual service device configuration and identify if any
      Mandatory parameter is missing. One example might be seen when
      configuring the ASA firewall and the “order” parameter the access
      control entry is a required field even thought it is not marked as
      required.

Symptom 8
^^^^^^^^^

In the example the Cisco ASAv is being used, and traffic is not passing
through the service device. After inspecting the Deployed Device Cluster,
there is a fault, F0324 Major script error: Configuration error:.

Verification
^^^^^^^^^^^^

This fault is related to the Function Node configuration and it indicates that
a passed configured parameter in rendering was not accepted by the service
device. Examples might include configuring ASAv transparent mode in the policy
while the firewall is configured in routed mode, or configuring the ASAv
security level to 200 when the only acceptable values are from 0 to 100.
