Relevant Objects and Relationships
==================================

Within the ACI application model, the primary object that encompasses all of
the objects and their relationships to each other is called an Application
Profile, or AP. Some readers are certain to think, "a 3-tier app is a
unicorn," but in this case, the idea of a literal 3-tier application works
well for illustrative purposes. Below is a diagram of an AP shown as a logical
structure for a 3-tier application that will serve well for describing the
relevant objects and relationships.

.. image:: /images/row-000.jpg
   :width: 750 px
   :align: center

From left to right, in this 3-tier application there is a group of clients
that can be categorized and grouped together. Next there is a group of web
servers, followed by a group of application servers, and finally a group of
database servers. There exist relationships between each of these independent
groups. For example, from the clients to the application servers, there are
relationships that can be described in the policy which can include things
such as QoS, ACLs, Firewall and Server Load Balancing service insertion. Each
of these things is defined by managed objects, and the relationships between
them are used to build out the logical model, then resolve them into the
hardware automatically.

Endpoints are objects that represent individual workload engines (i.e. virtual
or physical machines, etc.). The following diagram emphasizes which elements
in the policy model are endpoints, which include web, application and database
virtual machines.

.. image:: /images/endpoint-000.jpg
   :width: 750 px
   :align: center

These endpoints are logically grouped together into another object called an
Endpoint Group, or EPG. The following diagram highlights the EPG boundaries in
the diagram, and there are four EPGs - Clients, Web servers, Application
servers, and Database servers.

.. image:: /images/anp-000.jpg
   :width: 750 px
   :align: center

There are also Service Nodes that are referenceable objects, either physical
or virtual, such as Firewalls, and Server Load Balancers (or Application
Delivery Controllers/ADC), with a firewall and load balancer combination
chained between the client and web EPGs, a load balancer between the web and
application EPGs, and finally a firewall securing traffic between the
application and database EPGs.

.. image:: /images/service-000.jpg
   :width: 750 px
   :align: center

A group of Service Node objects can be logically chained into a sequence of
services represented by another object called a Service Graph. A Service Graph
object provides compound service chains along the data path. The diagram below
shows where the Service Graph objects are inserted into a policy definition,
emphasizing the grouped service nodes in the previous diagram.

.. image:: /images/policy-000.jpg
   :width: 750 px
   :align: center

With objects defined to express the essential elements of the application, it
is possible to build relationships between the EPG objects, using another
object called a Contract. A Contract defines what provides a service, what
consumes a service and what policy objects are related to that consumption
relationship. In the case of the relationship between the clients and the web
servers, the policy defines the communication path and all related elements of
that. As shown in the details of the example below, the Web EPG provides a
service that the Clients EPG consumes, and that consumption would be subject
to a Filter (ACL) and a Service Graph that includes Firewall inspection
services and Server Load Balancing.

.. image:: /images/contract-000.jpg
   :width: 750 px
   :align: center

A concept to note is that ACI fabrics are built on the premise of a whitelist
security approach, which allows the ACI fabric to function as a semi-stateful
firewall fabric. This means communication is implicitly denied, and that one
must build a policy to allow communication between objects or they will be
unable to communicate. In the example above, with the contract in place as
highlighted, the Clients EPG can communicate with the Web EPG, but the Clients
cannot communicate with the App EPG or DB EPGs. This is not explicit in the
contract, but native to the fabricâ€™s function.

