Firmware and Image Management
=============================

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

Overview
--------

This chapter covers firmware and image management for the ACI fabric hardware
components. It will cover the overview of objects and policies that make up
firmware and image management in the context of software upgrades, followed by
the verification steps used to confirm a successful upgrade process.

APIC Controller and Switch Software
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

There are three types of software images in the fabric that can be upgraded:

    #. The APIC software image.
    #. The switch software image — software running on leafs and spines of the
       ACI fabric.
    #. The Catalog image — the catalog contains information about the
       capabilities of different models of hardware supported in the fabric,
       compatibility across different versions of software, and hardware and
       diagnostic utilities. The Catalog image is implicitly upgraded with the
       controller image. Occasionally, it may be required to upgrade the
       Catalog image only to include newly qualified hardware components into
       the fabric or add new diagnostic utilities.

You must upgrade the switch software image for all the spine and leaf switches
in the fabric first. After that upgrade is successfully completed, upgrade the
APIC controller software image.

Firmware Management
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

There are five components within the context of firmware management:

    #. Firmware Repository is used to store of images that have been downloaded
       to the APIC. Images are transferred into the firmware repository from
       external source locations over HTTP or SCP protocols. The source
       locations are configurable via the firmware source policy. Once an image
       has been copied from its source location, it is replicated across all
       controllers within the cluster. The switch nodes will retrieve images
       from the controller as required during the beginning of the upgrade
       process.
    #. Firmware Policy is the policy which specifies the desired firmware image
       version.
    #. Firmware Group is the configured group of nodes that share the same
       firmware policy.
    #. Maintenance Policy is the maintenance policy which specifies a schedule
       for upgrade.
    #. Maintenance Group is the group of nodes that share the same maintenance
       policy.

By default, all controllers are part of a predefined firmware group and a
predefined maintenance group. Membership within the firmware and maintenance
groups is not modifiable. However, both the controller firmware policy and the
controller maintenance policy are modifiable to select a desired version to
upgrade to.

Before the administrator can upgrade switches, a firmware group must be
created for all the switches and and one or more maintenance groups should be
created to contain all the switches within the ACI fabric.

Compatibility Check
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The ACI fabric can have up to 3 different versions of compatible switch
software images to be simultaneously active in a fabric. There are three
different levels of “compatibility” checks:

    #. Image level compatibility - Controllers use the Catalog image to check
       for compatibility across software images that can interoperate in the
       fabric. The controller will ensure image compatibility is satisfied
       before allowing for upgrade and downgrade.
    #. Card level compatibility - Within a spine modular chassis, the
       supervisor software must be compatible with line card, fabric card and
       system controller software. Similarly all the connected FEXes within the
       leaf switch must be compatible with software running in the leaf. If a
       card or a FEX connected to the system contains incompatible software
       with the supervisor module of a spine or a leaf, the supervisor module
       of the spine or the leaf will ensure compatibility by pushing down a
       compatible version of card or FEX software.
    #. Feature level compatibility - Given a set of disparate image versions
       running in the fabric, these images may have image level compatibility
       and can be simultaneously available within the fabric. However, they may
       not support the same set of software features. As a result, feature and
       hardware level compatibility is encoded in the object model such that
       the controller can identify feature incompatibility at the point of
       configuration by administrator. Administrator will be prompted or
       configuration will result in failure when enabling such features in a
       mixed hardware and software version environment.

Firmware Upgrade Verification
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Once a controller image is upgraded, it will disconnect itself from the
cluster and reboots with the newer version while the other APIC controllers in
the cluster are still operational. Once the controller is rebooted, it joins
the cluster again. Then the cluster converges, and the next controller image
will start the upgrade process. If the cluster does not immediately converge
and is not fully fit, the upgrade will wait until the cluster converges and is
"Fully Fit". During this period, a Waiting for Cluster Convergence message is
displayed.

For the switches, the administrator can also verify that the switches in the
fabric have been upgraded from the APIC GUI navigation pane, by clicking
Fabric Node Firmware. In the Work pane, view all the switches listed. In the
Current Firmware column view the upgrade image details listed against each
switch.

.. image:: /images/firmwaredownloadsuccess2.png
   :width: 750 px
   :align: center

|

Verifying the Firmware Version and the Upgrade Status by of use of the REST API
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

For the upgrade status of controllers and switches. An administrator can query
the upgrade status with the following URL:

https://<ip address>/api/node/class/maintUpgJob.xml

An administrator can query the current running firmware version on controllers:

https://<ip address>/api/node/class/firmwareCtrlrRunning.xml

An administrator can also query the currently operating firmware version on
switches:

https://<ip address>/api/node/class/firmwareRunning.xml

Problem Description
-------------------

Failing to copy firmware files to APIC through a download task

Symptom
^^^^^^^

After configuring an APIC download task policy, the download keeps failing and
will not download the firmware from the home directory of the user.

Verification
^^^^^^^^^^^^
The following screen is observed:

.. image:: /images/firmwaredownloadfail1.png
   :width: 750 px
   :align: center

|

.. image:: /images/firmwaredownloadfail2.png
   :width: 750 px
   :align: center

|

Resolution
^^^^^^^^^^

Since the APIC is using standard Linux distribution, the SCP command needs to
follow the standard Linux SCP format. For example, if the IP address is
171.70.42.180 and the absolute path is
/full_path_from_root/release/image_name. The following illustrations show the
successful download of the APIC software via SCP.

.. image:: /images/firmwaredownloadsuccess1.png
   :width: 750 px
   :align: center

|

.. image:: /images/firmwaredownloadsuccess2.png
   :width: 750 px
   :align: center

|
   
Problem Description
-------------------

The APIC cluster fails to upgrade.

Symptom
^^^^^^^

Policy upgrade status showing "Waiting for Cluster Convergence".

Verification
^^^^^^^^^^^^

When upgrading Controllers, the Controller Upgrade Firmware Policy will not
proceed unless the APIC Cluster has a status "Fully Fit". The upgrade status
may show "Waiting for Cluster Convergence" and will not proceed with upgrade.

This "Waiting for Cluster Convergence" status can be caused due to a policy or
process that has crashed. If the cluster is not in a "Fully Fit" state, check
the list of running processes for each APIC, for example evidence of such a
problem would be the presence of core dump files in a Controller.

Resolution
^^^^^^^^^^

While the administrator can recover the APIC from the "Waiting for Cluster
Convergence" state by restarting the affected APIC to allow all processes to
start up normally, in the presence of core dump files the Cisco Technical
Assistance Center should be contacted immediately to analyze and troubleshoot
further.

Problem Description
-------------------

Policy upgrade is paused.

Symptom
^^^^^^^
Upgrade is paused for either an APIC or a switch.

Verification
^^^^^^^^^^^^

The administrator can verify the fault to see if there is a fault code F1432 -
Maintenance scheduler is paused for group policyName. One or more members of
the group failed to upgrade or the user manually paused the scheduler being
generated.

Resolution
^^^^^^^^^^

The administrator should look for other faults indicating why the upgrade
failed. Once all the faults are resolved, the administrator can delete
failed/paused policy and re-initiate a new policy upgrade.
